# IDCC CfP

## Proposal for Trust through Transparency: 18th International Digital Curation Conference

\`Open Music Europe\` aims to fill the data gaps that 150 music industry
stakeholders had identified for a future permanent data collection
program, the European Music Observatory. In our effort, we aim to
provide a pilot of a data public-private partnership that connects the
best practices of reproducible and open scientific research, open
government data reuse, and the use of privately held data in the
creation of official statistics. We aim to show that a good
public-private partnership can simultaneously improve the quality,
timeliness and variety of data available for research, business and
official statistics.

The topic of the paper is a practical revision of recent developments in
statistical production, particularly about the piloting and development
of the use of privately-held data for improving official statistics by
the European Statistical System and the UN Statistical Division and some
countries, and various open science and open policy analysis initiatives
from the scholarly institutions. As a case study, we will show the
design of the Slovak Comprehensive Music Database, a linked open data
resource that connects a countryâ€™s collective rights management
organisations, music libraries and music heritage organisations to
provide the most comprehensive ever database on music works, their sound
recordings and notation together with authorship and performer data. We
will show how to produce and maintain this dataset using the open
collaboration method and open source software and derive a so-called
music industry register from it. The concept of the Slovak Music
Industry Register serves as a tool of data coordination among
privately-held data (for example, royalty accounts of national rights
management) and the Slovak statistical authorities and as a tool of ex
ante and retrospective harmonisation of official sample surveys
conducted by the Slovak statistical authorities and scientific surveying
by the Open Music Europe consortium. Contrasting with real-life data
governance and technical issues, we will reflect on FAIR, TRUST,
statistical quality assurance programs and the metadata standards of DDI
and the Statistical Data and Metadata Exchange.
